# Week 4 Coursework

## Description 
This repository contains the code, data, and folder structure for Week 4 coursework, organized into separate folders for easy navigation and workflow. This work is from the "Data management and visualization" chapter of the coding bootcamp.

## Language
R
python

## Dependencies
R version 4.3.3 was used when creating this files, and in R the packages tidyverse and reshape2 are required.

ipython 8.20.0 was used when creating these files, and in python the package subprocess is required.

Jupyter Notebook

## Instillation
# R
install.packages("tidyverse")
install.packages("reshape2")
# python
import subprocess
# jupyter 
pip install jupyter

## Repository Structure
week4/code/  
Contains R scripts, one Jupyter Notebook and one python script for this week's exercises: DataWrang.R, Girko.R, MyBars.R, MyFirstJupyterNb.ipynb, plotLin.R, TestR.py, TestR.R


week4/data/ 
Contains data files for analysis:
PoundHilldata.csv is used in DataWrang.R
PoundHillMetaData.csv is used in DataWrang.R
Results.txt is used in MyBars.R
Resource.csv is used for the file SQLine in sandbox
EcolArchives-E089-51-D1.csv is used in several files in sandbox

week4/results/ 
Empty folder to store output and results from scripts 

week4/sandbox/ 
Folder for experimental code and testing

## Contents
- **code/**: This folder includes 5 R scripts, 1 python script and 1 Jupyter notebook, from exercises for this week.
  - Each script covers specific programming tasks, from conditionals to vectorization, loops, and file browsing.
- **data/**: This folder contains 4 `.csv` files and one '.txt' file, required to run codes.
- **results/**: This empty folder is where output files generated by the scripts will be saved.
- **sandbox/**: This folder is meant for experimentation and testing; you can use it to run sample code and perform trials.

## Author
Bridget Smith
bs2324@ic.ac.uk

